# Automation And Infrastructure Deployment Documentation

This repository contains several scripts that are designed to automatically deploy webservers running nginx 
as well as a prometheus node that is used to monitor them. The scripts are designed to run on a linux system
that has Oracle Virtualbox installed on it. This project makes use of Ansible for configuring servers after 
they have been installed in virtualbox. 

## Script Overview

This section will explain what each of the scripts in the project does as well as the reasoning for creating them. In general the scripts are listed in the order that they are executed in during deployment.

### `provision.sh`

This script uses VBoxManage to launch and automatically configure machines. There are variables at the top that can be used to easily change a few settings. This script will also automatically add the created virtual machines to the ansible inventory file in /etc/hosts/ansible. 

### `initial-hardening.sh`

This script generates an ssh key on the local host that will be inserted into each of the deployed servers. It also runs the harden.yaml playbook.

### `harden.yaml`

This playbook adds the ssh key that was generated by the initial-hardening.sh script to all deployed servers. It also configures each of the servers
to only allow key based authentication for ssh. It also installs all available updates, configures automated updates via cron, and creates a new admin user while disabling the default ubuntu account that was used during the automated install. A few unused services that were preinstalled with ubuntu are also removed in this playbook.

### `setup-firewall.sh`

This script runs the firewall.yaml playbook.

### `firewall.yaml`

This playbook configures firewall rules for both the webservers and the prometheus server that is monitoring them. All servers have UFW installed
and allow ssh access on port 22. The webservers allow web traffic on ports 80 and 443. These servers also use nginx-exporter and node-exporter, so 
ports 9100 and 9113 are also open to allow prometheus to monitor them. Port 9090 is open on the prometheus node to allow admins to view the monitoring dashboard through the browser. Port 3000 is also open in order to allow access to the Grafana web interface. Port 3100 is also open to allow access to loki.

### `deploy-services.sh`

This script runs the deploy-services.yaml playbook.

### `deploy-services.yaml`

This playbook copies over hello-site.conf and metrics.conf to each of the servers nginx configuration directories. It also copies index.html to the servers. This script also instals the needed exporters so that prometheus can monitor each of the webservers. Prometheus is also configured via this script. The script will copy over the prometheus.yml file in order to configure the server to run monitoring jobs for both exporters. The discover-hosts.sh script is also copied over to the prometheus instance and then executed as part of the installation. Grafana is also configured with custom dashboards as well as automatically set up alerts via email.

### `openscap-hardening.sh`

This script runs the scap-compliance.yaml playbook.

### `scap-compliance.yaml`

This playbook copies over the scap.sh script and runs it on each server. The script is used to install openscap, conduct a scan, and then run the autogenerated remediation script. This playbook helps manage that process. It also unmasks nginx and ensures that it is running. This is done because the remediation script will disable the nginx service.

### `scap.sh`

This script is copied over and run on each server. It installs openscap as well as the required profiles needed to conduct a scan and remediation on an Ubuntu 24.04 server.

### `collect-logs.sh` 

This script runs the collect-logs.yaml playbook.

### `collect-logs.yaml`

This playbook collects various system logs from each of the servers and then exports them to the ansible control node. This is done to enable convenient access to each systems logs at any time. It is not run as part of the deploy process, it is more of an optional but useful utility.

### `backup-machines.sh`

This script runs on the host system. It makes use of VBoxManage to shut down all running machines and then proceeds to back up the .vdi files to a backup directory on the host system.

### `destroy.sh`

This script is run on the host system. It shuts down and destroys the created virtual machines. It's main use is to clean up so that provision.sh
can be safely run again.

### `automated-deploy.sh`

This script executes all of the scripts that are required to deploy this system automatically. Aside from possibly being prompted for a sudo password one time during script execution there is no human intervention required.